melissa is just off camera here and this
is a story I started to tell you I think
a few different times when we were on
the bus or getting on off an airplane
and something interrupted it or the type
of conversation change the story of how
I first got the idea for a RI Oh even
for that specific name active research
in a foreign opinion and it relates to
some kind of parallel issues and themes
in my life that are ongoing now and that
were ongoing like whatever 10 years ago
and more so had a period of my life that
culminated at Cambridge and Oxford in
England and for those of you don't know
Cambridge and Oxford although they look
far apart on a map relative to the size
of England which is just not that big a
country there was a direct bus going
from Cambridge to Oxford and had like a
catchy name like the gx7 that was this
special express bus from Cambridge
Oxford that really made it very quick to
get back and forth to new places and my
ex-wife and I like partly because we
were we were cognizant with this bus we
actually moved to a town that actually
made it even quicker and easier to get
between the two so earlier we were
living in in downtown Cambridge itself
then we moved to this place called st.
Nia's that was on the bus line and you
could really quickly add to Cambridge or
Oxford so I had a period of time and I
gave some lectures and was talking to
people and hobnobbing with people and
tied with doing applications for getting
in and doing a PhD in Buddhist studies
right so I don't even want to bother
estimating the year obviously this
before my daughter was born this is
before a lot of things happened but it
already had years of experience in the
field as a scholar in Buddhism I already
had articles and publications and I just
given these lectures and you know the
lecture I gave at Oxford especially the
professor he'd been hosting a series of
lectures and this stuff you can verify
the internet he really said like wow
like that was better then these other
people PhD is giving lectures he praised
it in very hard terms very high terms he
said that he said that there was more
content in that one leg
than they have in one of their normal
semester long courses and stuff like
that you know and it's true I mean in
some ways I was there and it was like
look I'm just back from like Cambodia
Laos Thailand India and I have so much
to say I've done so much research in
terms of the dry books and textual study
so much in terms of life experience so
much there was a humanitarian work in
politics but also yeah I mean you know
you know both lived experience direct
cultural experience and book reading
like to give an example this is just the
kind of thing that normally isn't there
in academia I talked about at one point
the lecture this wasn't written in the
in the text I put up a map and I talked
about the fact that most people
misinterpret the map because they hadn't
walked in real life in person on the
banks of the Mekong River at both high
tide and low tide and know that the map
changes that historically to understand
the trade routes you had to know that at
when the water was low there was a kind
of you know there was really a lot for
me to share you know obviously on things
like Strait philosophy of mind ethics
you know Buddhist philosophy per se but
also on things like the history of
slavery and trade the history of
civilizations in Southeast Asia the
politics I had so much to put on the
table and kind of everyone around me in
that environment was picking up on it
was kind of excited to meet me people
would anthropology people in Asian
Studies people but his studies whatever
um but of course it became obvious oh
look it was obvious to me before I got
there that I would never get into a
master's degree or PhD program or you
know both as a package normal what
you're looking for is where they say
look get the MA and get the PhD here's
how it's gonna work I would never get
into that kind of path or package
academically unless someone wanted to
bend the rules for me and what I found
there and the reason for that is my
first university degree is in political
science so you normally can't get into a
degree in Buddhism or Asian Studies so
unless they they say okay you'll do this
transitional program now on the other
hand have that happens all the time so
even my ex-wife
she got one of those transitional deals
I think her silver first degree was in
literature and they said okay you're
going to make the transition from
and anthropology by taking some courses
we're gonna set you up we're gonna do
the x y&z so that is an exception of the
rules but it is a commonly made
exception the rules and I was looking
for someone to recognize the work I'd
done formally and informally say okay
now before I even got there
I realized how the method that was going
to be and then I spent some time there
and I realized that even without people
bending the rules like if you took the
narrow path of applying on paper that
even that was going to be impossible for
me I've never seen that before
okay I guess I'm lying I guess I have
seen that before but it's really
sickening when in academia the level of
prejudice and awe Stila t is so high
that you cannot even get the application
like you can't get the physical paper to
fill out to apply for a perk that won't
let you have it right like there's this
level of like secrecy and skullduggery
where they're um they're basically
sabotaging your ability to even be a
candidate right not that's very
different from rejecting you later on
like okay you applied we evaluate you
and guess what only ten people win and
you aren't one of the ten but of course
one of the reasons they're doing that is
that they're afraid they might only have
eight applicants so you might be one of
the best ten no matter what even if they
don't want you where they know you know
they know that if you're allowed to
apply fair and square you have a chance
or maybe you're even maybe you're even
likely to win so they're they're
undermining they're cheating their own
systems and like I had this kind of
experience where I couldn't even get
could even operations and I remember
talking about that with people and you
got this whole range of kind of denial
istic reactions most of the people
inside the system wanted to believe in
the system once in a while you got
someone who was truly genuinely cynical
but there was a lot of phony cynicism I
remember one guy getting very angry at
me and saying to me no like you must be
hallucinating and paranoid like this is
not possible like the whole system is
based on real merit and so on and I just
said to myself wait wait let's let's
talk about your case what happened to
you how did you get in here and we went
through it step by step and yeah people
open doors ribbon people made exceptions
if people wait accommodations and people
said hey oh I'm gonna fill out this form
for you and get you money get you back
in from actually
a bank in this case we're gonna get you
a bursary we're gonna do this screen to
that I said in my case I can't I
literally can't get in the door I can't
get the meat in I can't get the
application so both were true I mean
I've already mentioned there was a lot
of positive response to me I made a big
impression on people
I was very warmly received in a lot of
different forms including stuff like
anthropology which is not technically my
field but I have a lot to say about
anthropology especially in the area I've
been doing research I knew a lot about
those travel peoples and their histories
and cultures there was a lot of
positivity come back a lot of positive
recognition but then on the other hand
formally and informally a lot of people
were telling me it's hopeless don't even
apply don't even waste your time don't
think about it both Cambridge and Oxford
and I talked to other people too like
the University of London which has so as
and you know different answers in
different cases but this is again so at
that time the next step in the thought
process is look what is it I would want
to do if I got in what is the project I
would want to do if I actually got an MA
or PhD and the reality is I can probably
do that now without getting an American
the reality probably is getting the MA
or PhD would only help to some extent
towards that goal towards getting that
so I wrote up a proposal for a for
publication a magazine I guess and it
was a publication that one man could do
alone so this I don't know if this is
before YouTube existed or was just
before I was aware of YouTube myself or
before YouTube had expanded his
best-ever
I didn't think about YouTube YouTube
didn't exist for me subjectively at this
time I remember first becoming aware of
YouTube when I was when I was living in
Cambodia the last time he must have
already existed just wasn't part of my
life anyway partly cuz I was living in
parts of the world where the internet
was very slow like you know you could do
email but to load a video or something
I didn't even was sorry I didn't try to
do in general so you know the idea was
to do publication that in some ways
provided in the 21
century what the 19th century had and
the 20th century was lacking in Buddhist
studies in Asian Studies there were a
bunch of really brilliant and original
publications that normally were the
product of one hard-working man there
was one I remember where the editor was
actually a British soldier deployed in
the barracks of India so he was part of
the British military occupation of India
and there was no internet but just to
the British postal service he was
sending out wire transfers and letters
and stuff and people were saying example
him and he was putting together and
collating and publishing like the news
forum were then new discoveries in
archaeology anthropology study of
Buddhism history you know things being
translated from Sanskrit in English for
the first time this hoping done on paper
obviously a great expense and this guy
had no academic library or institution
behind him so it was aware of examples
like this back when the work was a lot
harder to do and in some ways was less
rewarded and less rewarding because you
could reach only a very small audience
I'd spent a lot of time in archives
looking at these kinds of things I'd
seen I'd seen the substance that the
progress of Buddhist studies and Asian
Studies was was made of back in the 19th
century small numbers of extraordinary
people like this and by the way the
process not being peer reviewed so you
get you know brilliant and sometimes
flawed letter is coming for people I
remember one that was a letter from a
soldier who had himself participated in
piling up and burning Buddhist
manuscripts so you've been involved in
looting burning and destroying but it's
manuscripts on behalf of the British
Empire and writing in describing that
and what was going on and putting some
stuff it's not peer-reviewed right it's
not it's also not journalism but like
now you look at when if you look at 100
years later you'll wow it's so valuable
that someone got that telegram or got
that wire or that letter and took it and
put it into this you know somewhat
scholarly magazine then the other thing
that I saw in those magazine 19th
century again without peer review was
really just making a survey of what the
new publications were like oh when you
book came out of this new book a minute
so put together this PowerPoint
presentation saying look this is what I
do you know this is what I want to do
it doesn't take zero funding gonna take
very very little money and pointed out
you can put together a list of what are
the new publications one of the new
publications on Myanmar new publications
on Thailand Pavitra you can be looking
at what's happening in these places
around the world every month or every
three months you can be looking at what
is the new scholarship about Asia being
published in Russia right English isn't
the only language of scholarship Russian
German Italian there are a few others to
check not that much you can be doing a
survey even if you're just one man
working alone that's really providing
something valuable for all the people
concerned and there is an interesting
kind of second second punch there's a
one-two punch here so that's kind of the
positive proposals look this is
something wonderful we can do all right
and there were other specifics to it
like I pointed out hey there are
academic conferences happen around the
world some on Buddhism some one Asian
Studies some one politics be something
like the 12th annual conference of Thai
studies happens in Thailand and most
people never even found out what they
missed like even just to have someone
write up a brief summary of this guy
presented this paper on this topic
here's what happened if you just do news
reporting on some of the academic events
it normally is possible to get the whole
essay whether or not we would publish
the whole essay to have a brief summary
of the most interesting things going on
because if you don't have somebody doing
that then people put in all this effort
to put to perform present a conference
paper like five people see it 5 5 to 15
people's it and then it disappears and
like one guy like me I was the one guy
going and spending the time of the
archives and finding those things around
Wow you know oh wow I found this obscure
paper by Volker Grabowski dealing with
this issue in linguistics that has
connections the history and politics and
matters and I knew I was like the only I
was one of them I was a tiny tiny
fraction of the people who would care
about that and who should know about
that finding out about that paper and
understanding its implications so I saw
a big positive opportunity there
that's one punch the other punch oh god
no but try to find another punch was the
negative side of it the other punch is
pointing out oh god Sarah a rare case of
this I've really lost her train of
thought the other punch was was pointing
on something
something really a negative about this
situation the very middle maybe will
come to me a bit later so I I did a
search this is also part of the the
transformation of the world by Google
Google made it possible to do a keyword
search through a big body of literature
pretty easily Google Scholar or what
have you I was able to use Google to
search like all the Asian Studies
academic publications and all the
Buddhist studies academic occasions and
you search for like a word that's the
equivalent in Buddhism to the Pope right
the leader of the Buddhist the Buddhist
church in Thailand has a particular
title or particular name and yet look
for other words like slavery you know
and you'd be able to show look all this
paper is being published but the level
of mutual ignorant between Buddhism and
politics Asian Studies and politics or
academia and political reality point out
do you think we could do a similar
search of Catholic publications and have
no mention of the Pope like his name
doesn't even appear once in a 10 or 15
year period do you think we could have
you know any Christian or Muslim
literature that we're slavery just
doesn't appear there's no discussion and
you know there were a couple other
keywords on this there was a one-two
punch that where the the second punch
was hey and the other thing is what you
guys are sleeping on what your whatever
one is participating in a kind of
conspiracy in Buddhism and Asian Studies
would have you is is burying and
avoiding you know political reality so
that was that proposal at that time and
what's been going on in the last five
years of my life is kind of parallel but
post Buddhist Melissa you've heard me
asking this question a lot lately where
I asked in an open way okay it seems to
be impossible for me to get a master's
degree and PhD and not because I have
low grades because of what's wrong with
Canadian academia there's really no
program for me to even apply for there's
a lot wrong with the system in the
classes
whenever I have high grades have a new
degree from University of Victoria and
Asian Studies I should be able to
progress to an MA and PhD in Asian
Studies but I can't so I won't so then
the next step is to ask what is what is
it I would do after having an MA or PhD
if I could do anything and then what's
really stopping me could I do that now
anyway without getting the America
giotto how much does it really help me
to have the MA page to do that and the
truth is probably the best thing I could
do after getting an MA or PhD would be
to come on YouTube and do something like
AR I hope to do this kind of you know
survey of what's going on in in in
politics not just in Asia for me of the
Asia Europe North America and the links
between them and Asia by the way
includes India includes Cambodia not
just China and Japan but to try to take
on as much of Asia as I can and
obviously the the Muslim world in the
core of Asia a huge amount of work just
just to cover what's happening in Iran
and Iraq that's going to be the real
challenge for me is budgeting my time so
I can cover as much of Asia as possible
as well as Europe Europe in North
America and like the original idea with
doing this in in Buddhist studies in
Asian Studies the main benefit is also
how it's gonna transform me over time I
really don't like what would happen to
me in most academic programs when you
think about what I'm gonna have to learn
I'm gonna have to do with my time for
six years maybe getting an MA and a PhD
what it is I'm gonna be studying and
what it is I'm gonna be forgetting what
is gonna be doing and not doing with my
brain it's actually pretty dark path for
me to get on to say it's a waste of my
time this is another statement it could
really have a lot of negative impacts in
my life
whereas doing this kind of systematic
survey and analysis not just need your
commentary but really meaningful
analysis of what's going on in politics
and history as it unfolds that to me a
sudden I think is going to transform you
in
in a really positive way so the name
active research and informed opinion has
really been with me from the time I gave
up on Buddhism as a religion is over
five years ago because I remember that
time thinking okay so now that brit ism
doesn't have the role in my life that it
used to have what would that publication
be what would it be that i would want to
do you know with or without a page in
education what is it really that you
know i'd want to sink my own resources
of time into and so on and at that time
I really thought okay you know what it
is the the real core of this is about
active research and informed opinion and
then at that time the problem was I was
still thinking about a magazine you
still thinking about paper you know and
that's hard to do alone and definitely
the strength of YouTube if it's my
full-time job if I really give it my all
I do think that that concept and what I
want to do I can adapt that to cinema
here and I can do that as pretty much a
daily upload schedule but more
importantly their daily uploads based on
reading research report me when I'm
learning from academic and non-canonical
resources on an ongoing basis or I'm not
happy that's what I hate about mostly
journals I'm not just repeating kind of
hackneyed talking points that haven't
changed since I was the university
student myself so many of these guys you
know Jake Uighur and jimmy dore it
really is a broken record it's the same
the same sense of smug superiority again
and again and again they're just taking
bits and pieces of things from the news
and never challenging themselves and
never learning new things they're just
reinforcing their sense of smoke
superiority whether it's over Donald
Trump or you know whoever is the butt of
their jokes for this week I do think the
other thing that really makes this
important it's not it's not about
talking ultimately it's about learning
for me is the potential that I'm going
to be pushing myself not just to make
better use of the background I have in a
research and political analysis but to
be really extending the frontiers of of
what's known into what
known as history unfolds and also as new
and important research publications come
out about political history from the
past